Main General Points:

In Euproean Countries, placements are done based on the concept like contractors get placed in the Client Company through Agency
and  1PS provides platform services and funds to deal with it. They act as bridge between Agency and client. They dont deal with contractors.

For Example:

client: Infosys
agency - any consultancy
contractor - IT Proffesional

1ps application users - Recruitment Agencies and Clients, Contractors
1ps main client -  Agency

All the entities are onboarded by creating a profile for them in the 1PS system before creating a placement between a contractor, agency, and client

MAJOR  ENTITIES:
1.  Clients -  have vacancy and offer a position to a suitable contractor through an agency(except directly recruit for permanent placements) 
( unique client Reference Number)
        Temporary and permannet roles.
		
2.  Agency - providing recruitment services to an end client ( unique Agency Reference Number and Unique Name)

3. Contractor - contractor is an individual hired for a position by the client 
They get paid through umbrella company or limited company.

Umbrella Company -  third party companies for financial management of clients.
1PS would pay the contractor’s gross salary for which umbrella company applies the correct tax deductions for the contractors and pay the net salary.  

Limited Company - 1PS would pay the gross amount directly to the limited company that is then responsible to pay the correct taxes to HMRC. 

4. Funders - who funds 1ps and derives a commission for the service.


Agency Onboarding :
Agency creation in portal and approcing login and access.

1PS Service Charge -  Commission charged by 1PS from agency

Client - Client creation in portal

1PS Service Charge -  Commission charged by 1PS from Client
Credit Limit Amount - amount credited by client in advance to 1ps 
Bad debt limit amount - limit upto which credit can be provided

Funders - can also fund any agency like 1ps

Transactions :
First level of Transaction - Placement Creation
Second level - Timesheet Creation
Third level -  expenses claims 


Placement - placement is defined as the position created for a contractor between a client and agency 
placement terms - ?


Types of expense - funded / paid when paid 

Placement Process

Placement Creation - Initiated 
placement sent for approval by cleint or agency - status changed to submitted
if approved then status will be changed to approved.
placement accepted by the contractor - status changed to accepted

Once the placement is accepetd by the contractor - then the timesheet is generated.
The Timesheet is generated on or after the start date.
After generation of timesheet, it is sent for approval from TimeSheet Approver.
once the timesheet is approved, the invoice is generated for the approved timesheet


In Permanent Placement, no invoices are generated. Only manual Invoices are generated.
1PS can only chase the timesheet submission by the client or for approval by the TSA.

INVOICES: 

For every timesheet approved, invoices are generated 
Invoices are of two types 
- 3 Invoices 
- 4 Invoices 


3 Invoices Category - is followed only for the perm placements 

Contractor to Agency 

Agency to Client 

1PS to Agency 

Invoice Amount Calculated
Amount = (Total units worked * Contractor rate) with the VAT Amount Included.

VAT Amount Calculation:
Based on Country 
If the company is registered for VAT  
Invoice originating company 

Gone through upto pagenumber 67